OK now let's start to helping our first entity and connected to a database to do that I'm going to create
a new project.
So let's click Create new project and we have initialiser o click next.
And this project is going to be A.D. And I'm also going to name the artifact to anti-Tea OK.
And also let's just update the description too.
And it's the
all right now with squid next and indeed dependencies that we have to just pick what we want and what
we need.
And of course we're going to use edge too and with embedded support as you can see here.
So let's just click to and let's check out what other things that we can make use of.
And let's just check out core and refine here and let's check out the web in the web dependencies.
We need weap because as you can see here we need Tom-Kat we need our embedded server so that we can
run our speed good application and have it running all the time even if we don't use it.
So make sure you click the Web.
And let's also pick the JPA because that's going to provide us the abstraction layer on top of H-2 database.
So we're fine here.
And now let's click next.
And our project is going to be named as entity.
I'm just going to make this upper case here.
All right.
So let's click Finish to create our project.
Our dependencies are being resolved by Intel and may well of course so let's just check out our profile
and see what it looks like here.
In our profile as you can see we have spring boots Todder JPA artifact this artifact is going to provide
us all the skills of the JPA and spring data JPK of course.
And as you can see here we have H-2 database artifact.
And as you can see the scope is runtime.
So this will provide us the embedded database that we need.
All right.
Our dependencies are being Rizo right now and we can just move on to our project in our project where
we're going to do is we're going to create an entity and have it created to a database.
Now I'm going to create an entity and connected with the H2 database and I'll show you all the steps.
So let's just start by creating a package and this package is going to be named as entity.
All right and in this package what we need is a class that class as we discussed in the previous sections
is just a plain POJO let's just name our POJO as product and how to create it.
All right we have a POJO and it's all empty now.
What we need to do is we need to have this set as an entity and have it created by H-2 database.
Before we dig into that let's just how are properties for this product object product entity.
And of course a product is going to have an ID and identifier for it that says it's a unique thing.
So we're going to say that this idea is going to be an integer.
And of course this product has a name
and we should have a category so that we can fit it into
and we can have a property like type
and we can say that the sector is going to be a factor in this product so let's just say sector and
we have all the basic properties of a product.
Of course we can extend this list to a huge list of properties but for the sake of this Tauriel I'm
just going to keep it simple and you are just five properties.
All right so now let's just create our getters and setters for this product where are POJO and I'm going
to hit command and for Mac OS and I'll say Getaround center and I'll pick all our properties and it.
OK.
All right.
We have all of our centers and getters for his product.
What we need to do to have this product as an entity is we're going to market as an entity.
All right.
And this entity annotation is going to come from jaywalks persistence and that's going to provide us
the basic functionality of the JPA and on top of that spring is going to implement our repository crowd
operations with this entity.
You can name your table because this entity is basically going to be a table in our database and we
can provide any name you want.
But basically what JPA does is it takes your class name and creates a table with the name.
You don't have to provide a specific name for your POJO.
All right.
Now let's just annotate our properties so that they can be understood by JPA.
And of course even if we don't use any annotation for our properties they're going to be created by
JPA as table columns and we have to explicitly say that we don't want them to use as columns.
Otherwise they're going to be created by JPA in the database.
So our ID field is going to be an actual ID.
We're going to use our ID annotation this annotation marks that this property is going to be created
as an identifier in the table so that you can use this identifier to make it a primary key foreign key.
Or you can index this table index this product.
With this ID field.
All right.
And of course this ID has to be generated somehow.
Either you do it by hand or you can make use of the generated value annotation that's generated Twilley
the annotation is basically just like you say the generated value and you provide the strategy intelligence
suggesting that we can use the other generation strategy and which is that the Paul what this strategy
does.
Whenever you go to save your entity and you should be creating a new one it goes and creates a new ID
for you and persist.
It's the database.
That's basically what it does and it's very useful.
So let's say that we want is to regenerate it.
Although as you can see we have sequence identity and table types.
All the other types has different meanings for JPA.
For example if we say we want to be created as a sequence it follows a pattern.
So let's say that if you want it to be created one by one.
After all the IDs and let's say we how Id want ID to ID tree etc..
That's what it's going to do.
But in our case we're just going to use Ardo and it's going to be created for us whenever we persist
our product.
All right.
These are basically what you need to have your entity created.
Actually you don't even need these annotations.
All these properties are going to be generated in the database as columns.
But we want to say that our ID field is going to be distinct from other fields.
It's a unique property.
That's why we used our idea notation.
All right we have our entity ready to be created by H-2 But how is that going to be happening.
In order for this to be happening we have to say that we are using to as you can see how our H-2 artifact
here that artifacts says that we can use H.T. functionally but it doesn't say that we're connecting
to H-2 database right away.
We have to provide some properties so that Brinkmann know and understand that we're using H-2 database.
So let's do that now in our resource application properties file.
We're going to need some properties so that we can say we're using H-2 before we start we should say
that we're using the age to dry we're so to say that spring has a property and that property is spring.
Dot datasource
dot griper class name.
Here we go.
In this class name as you can see until intelligent understood that we want to use H-2 because of our
dependency.
So that's it.
Enter now we provided our edge to dry wood to spring and it can now connect to H-2 database but we have
to provide a data source a data source.
You're out for our H-2 because otherwise Sprint can't know what to connect to and it still will throw
an exception for that.
So to do that I'm going to use another property and say spring that data source that you are el and
as you can see here we see your database and you're out is going to be Jaydee b c and h 2 and for this
application and in general when I'm working with H-2 I use a file store so that I can how my data available
all the time.
So let's just do that again and let's say file an and let's just provide a database name and this database
is going to be named as products Arite in order to connect to our database.
We have to of course provide username and password.
And let's just provide those.
Now spring got
datasource that username and for the convention to connect into H-2 database we have as a as the field
and we can say that for the datasource is password we can leave it blank it doesn't really need a password.
Let's just keep it simple OK.
What else do we need to do now is we should enable the H2 console so that we can access our data and
see what's going on to do that.
Let's just use H-2 properties as you can see here we have a couple of alternatives for H-2 Council and
let's just enable the console first because it's disabled by default.
And and for the console to be appearing in a specific directory we say that Springle.
It stood up console that path and we're going to say H-2 and there are just one more thing missing in
our properties file and that's the show Seacole property.
J-P has spring dot JPA dot shows sequel this property basically says that on your console on your application
server console you either showreel sequel that's going around in your database that your application
uses the connect to you either say true or false.
If you say true it basically brings out the statements that the database engine creates.
So for our Tauriel we're going to set it to true.
OK.
Now world on here we can just run our application to see what's going on with our database and our application.
Let's run our application now
our application is starting and there are a couple of things that we should note here.
This is the actual important part that we need to focus spring is building the JPA container for and
to to measure factory.
If you previously qualified for JPA and plain JPA was on persistence API that you should remember that
manager factory because that factory is going to provide you and entity manager and and manager is going
to be going around to your database and handling all the transactions.
As you can see here in our implementation we didn't say anything about an entity manager because spring
data persistence API providing us all the benefits of abstraction Sprint created us a hibernate abstraction
with the spin data API and the most important part.
Hibernate as creating our database.
And as you can see here it's dropping the table if it exists.
Our product table and then it's creating our table with this statement.
And when it completes the process it says the schema export is complete.
In the end we have our application at Port 80 80.
So let's check out our application
local Hulst ADHD and slash h to
and here.
How are two console on the par Fox as you can see we used localhost ADHD slash edge to access this console.
That's because we said that we want to access this console from slash H-2 and the first part is our
route that of our application which is localhost ADHD as you can see here.
All right.
And the remaining part of our connection is that our driver is or that to the driver and that's the
fault you don't have to do anything about it.
But we said that we wanted to use that H2 because that's the name of the driver.
And for the data source we said that we wanted to use Jaydee B and efile database for our products database.
And we have to copy and paste this.
You are all really busy girl.
If you don't already have it.
OK.
And of course we provide our username and we didn't say anything about the password and it's empty by
default.
So let's just test our connection and our test is successful.
So now let's connect to our database here we go.
We have our H-2 database.
And as you can see here our product table is created.
Isn't that beautiful.
So let's take out our product table our product table as we describe as ID category name sector and
type fields.
All these fields are now columns in our database.
In our product table and let's take out our fields one by one ID is 10 and not all by default.
That's just because we said we wanted our ID field as an actual ID and generated by the JPA.
So it automatically said that it cannot be null and the default for an ID field is 10 characters.
All right.
So our category field is by the fall War car and two hundred and fifty five characters on our main field
is the same sector and type would be the same because we didn't say anything about the length or the
limitations of our other fields or sector type category or name.
We just said that that they're going to be created in the database as columns.
All right.
So let's just query our table.
And as you can see here when I click the table name here it automatically created a query for us.
So let's just run our query as you can see our table has no rows currently because we didn't persist
anything into our database.
That's perfectly normal so now let's just review what we've done up until now.
We create our entity and to the H-2 database and it's Konsole for us.
We created an entity and that entity started out as a POJO our closure was product and that product
had an ID as an integer field name a string category a string type and sector as things.
So we said that we wanted to provide getters and setters for these fields.
And then the most important part was the entity annotation as we have in our import here this entity
annotations said everything about our table to the H-2 database and JPA.
And then for our ID field we said that we wanted this to be created as an ID.
And as we come over it you can see that Hibernate JPA is used to create this ID and we wanted it to
use a auto generation strategy and we did what you want.
In the creation of an ID and then we come to our application up properties in our application properties.
We said that we wanted to use the H-2 database driver and that's only made possible by our dependency
right here and let me just scroll down a little bit and that dependency was H-2 database and H-2 artifact.
All right.
And then you wanted our database to be created as products.
And we also said that we want it to be created as a file.
We have actually three options here.
We can also say that we want to be created in the memory completely in the memory and that's how we
can say that it's going to be created in the memory.
All right.
And then we provided our user name as a.
And we didn't provide any passwords.
And that allowed us to connect to the database right away.
On the other hand we said that we wanted to be Konsole to be available and we said that we wanted to
use a different path than the full on and default one is H-2 dash console.
You don't even have to change this and you can just use a default one but I just want to say that I
want to use a different one.
Let's just switch back and in the last part of our application up properties we said that we want to
sort of Siku that the person's API is generating and that siecle as you can see here as the wizard earlier
is generated by hibernate.
And if we just disable that for now.
And the way to do that by the way to do way to disable your application properties and any property
that you want is by the sharp character.
So let's just disable the show's sequel and restart our application to see what difference it makes.
Our application is starting up and we shouldn't be seeing any output of sequel.
Here we go.
We're just seeing that our G.P.A. containers being created and our Hibernate is being created and our
schema export is started and then complete.
As you can see there is no sequel shown in our console and that's again managed by this property.
So I'm just going to enable that back again.
All right.
Our product table is created.
And that was way too simple with spring data JPA.
And the next video we're going to be digging into more of the spring data JPA and we're going to create
a repository for our entities and we're actually going to manipulate some data.
So I'll see on the next video.